---
layout: post
title: Codewars
intro: I'd like to present you a website called Codewars. Definetily a must see for challenge-searching programmers...
coverlink: /assets/images/codewars_cover.png
---

Because you read this, I assume you have nothing to do and you must be really bored as well. If this is the case, go on <a href="http://www.codewars.com/">codewars.com</a>.

But wait. I'd really like to give you a quick overview about this Gem.

##What is Codewars?
In one sentence I'd describe Codewars as an addictive and challenging, programming training plattform on the web.

##What can you do on Codewars?
Codewars is based on a ranking system. You can achieve higher rankings through solving katas (the challenges).

At the moment you can solve your katas in this programming languages
- JavaScript
- CoffeScript
- Ruby

Others will follow (reffering to Codewars).

##Example Challenge
Here's an example challenge. A very easy one. It's classified at 8 Kyu's (difficulty) which is the lowest level.
We have a technicall math problem which depens on the rule: "point before stroke", but let's have a look at the instructions.

###Instructions
>Steve loves MS Windows calculator in Standard mode.
He tries to calculate 2 + 2 * 2 in his favorite programming language. But Steve doesn't know about order of operations and he wonders why answers are different. He expects 8 but gets 6.
Help Steve to fix program, so result will be identical to MS Windows calculator.

###Solution
So let's come up with the code, I'd say.

{% highlight js %}
function calculate(){
  return (2 + 2) * 2;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Very easy indeed, but there are much more difficult Katas (Problems) like calculate with large numbers, use regex, validate stuff etc. pp.

## Conclusion
I really like Codewars and if you train constantly it'll really sharpen your skills. Fun and Progress, what do you want more?

Thanks for Reading and a nice Day

*Tobi*

Here's my codewars profile: 

<a href="http://www.codewars.com/users/tobipch">Tobipch Profile on Codewars</a>